README.md, before:

# Visit Glasgow

Visit Glasgow is a website that aims to encourage prospective tourists to visit this city by showcasing it primarily through photos, informative facts and the best jokes Glasgow has to offer. This site provides information about Glasgow, its places of interest, its people and their humour in a fun and engaging way and its target audience is people with an interest in learning about this unique city. Visit Glasgow will be of most use to people who have never been, don't much much about it and want to learn just enough to entice them to visit.

![Am I Responsive mockup](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ebl138/visit-glasgow/main/media/visit-glasgow-am-i-responsive-1260x720.PNG)

## Features

- __Image based design__

  - As Visit Glasgow is a site to showcase a location, there are images across all four pages featuring its most iconic and recognisable parts, instead of an abundance of text.
  - These images in particular aid in helping prospective visitors learn about Glasgow visually and give ideas of locations to visit, accompanied with supporting text where necessary.
  - Along with other aspects of the site, images help create and maintain visual interest which engages users more.
  - Includes the hero sections of pages and the Where to Visit? section on the Home page

- __Navigation__

  - Appearing on each of the four pages, the semi-transparent navigation bar displays across the top of the screen from left to right and is consistent on every page.
  - The navigation feature displays the site name, Visit Glasgow, on its left side in a clear yet styled way and, when clicked, will take the user to the Home page.
  - There are four links to the four pages of the website; Home, Gallery, Join the community! and Best Weegie Jokes; these links highlight in a light blue colour when hovered over to add visual appeal.
  - On mobile devices less than 768 pixels wide, the navigation bar contracts into a menu represented by a hamburger icon which, when clicked, expands down to display the four links.

![Navigation bar](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ebl138/visit-glasgow/main/media/navigation-bar.PNG)

- __Information blocks__

  - The information blocks provide the user with informative facts about Glasgow and its distinctive accent and the locals so they can learn about aspects of the city.
  - These blocks give an introduction to the city in a fun way which engages the user.

![Glasgow information blocks](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ebl138/visit-glasgow/main/media/information-blocks.PNG)

- __Map section__

  - The map at the bottom of the Home page will allow the user to see exactly where the locations featured in the Where to visit? section are and shows surrounding areas to help with orientation.
  - The map can be interacted with, opened in a new tab to display a larger version and shared on social media to help the user plan their trip.

![Meetup Times](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ebl138/visit-glasgow/main/media/locations-map-2100x457.PNG)

- __Gallery__

  - The gallery offers the user ideas for sights to see, in addition to teaching the user what Glasgow is like visually.
  - The gallery features a slider function which allows the user to browse through 8 images in an interactive way.

![Gallery](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ebl138/visit-glasgow/main/media/gallery-620x502.PNG)

- __Join the community! page (Sign up or Log in)__

  - This page will allow the user to Become a Weegie (sign up for an account) or log in to their account if they are a returning user. Giving the user the ability to log in will increase the chance of visiting Glasgow as they can come back to the site and see saved locations and images (implemented as part of a future feature).
  - When signing up for an account, a user will be asked to submit a desired username to create interest.

![Sign Up](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ebl138/visit-glasgow/main/media/join-the-community-1200x444.PNG)

- __Best Weegie Jokes page__

  - This page will allow the user to learn about Glasgow locals' unique humour and they can learn some of the Glaswegian dialect.

![Sign Up](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ebl138/visit-glasgow/main/media/best-weegie-jokes.PNG)

- __The Footer__

  - The footer section includes links to the social media pages for the Visit Glasgow community. The links will open to a new tab to minimise disruption for the user.
  - The footer is valuable to the user as it allows them to stay connected with other users of the site via social media and keep them coming back.
  - Text also informs the user that the favicon was created using favicon.ico.

![Footer](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ebl138/visit-glasgow/main/media/footer.PNG)

### Features Left to Implement

- A 'Reviews' page which would reference the four best and four worst reviews received by Glasgow businesses/places. This would give even more information to the user about Glasgow and suggest locations to visit or activities to do.
- A video addition to the Best Weegie jokes page of Billy Connolly's best joke. This would be valuable to the user to allow them to learn more about Glaswegian humour and, by extension, Glasgow.

## Testing

- Tested on Chrome, Edge, Firefox, Opera (four of the five most commonly used web browsers(1)).
- Tested on each Windows, Mac and Ubuntu Linux on at least one of the above browsers.
- Project is responsive, visually attractive and functions well on all screen sizes from 'Mobile S' (320 pixels wide) to '4K' (2560 pixels wide) using Chrome Devtools.
- Navigation, information block, sign up form, favourite joke form and footer text all easy to read and understand on mobile to desktop screen sizes.
- All three forms work. In the Log In and Sign Up forms, entries are required in all fields except the 'Username' field, which is clearly marked 'Optional'; in the Favourite Joke form, an entry is required (and will only be accepted) in one field and the first field has been pre-checked. The submit buttons on all three forms all work.
- Tested performance using GTMetrix with following results:

![GTMetrix test result](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ebl138/visit-glasgow/main/media/gtmetrix-performance-test.PNG)

### Validator Testing

- HTML
  - No errors were returned when passing through the official [W3C validator](https://validator.w3.org/nu/?doc=https%3A%2F%2Fcode-institute-org.github.io%2Flove-running-2.0%2Findex.html)
- CSS
  - No errors were found when passing through the official [(Jigsaw) validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/validator?uri=https%3A%2F%2Fvalidator.w3.org%2Fnu%2F%3Fdoc%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fcode-institute-org.github.io%252Flove-running-2.0%252Findex.html&profile=css3svg&usermedium=all&warning=1&vextwarning=&lang=en#css)
- Accessibility
  - Running the site through Devtools' Lighthouse gives the following score and confirms that the colours and fonts chosen are easy to read and accessible
  
![Lighthouse result](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ebl138/visit-glasgow/main/media/lighthouse.PNG)

### Unfixed Bugs

There are no unfixed bugs

## Deployment

The site was deployed to GitHub pages. The steps to deploy are as follows:
 - In the GitHub repository, navigate to the Settings tab
 - Under Code and automation on the left side of the page, select Pages
 - Under Branch, select main then Save
 - Github then confirms desployment has been successful and provides the link to view the deployed site

The live link can be found here - <https://ebl138.github.io/visit-glasgow>

## Credits

### Content

- The icons in the footer were taken from [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/)
- the hidden-heading class was taken from the Love Running project
- The Love Running README.md template was used as the basis for this README.md

### Media

- index.html Hero image: <https://www.freeimages.com/photo/glasgow-1-1491832>
- index.html Glasgow Clyde image: <https://unsplash.com/photos/7vJX8cIgLao>
- index.html Kelvingrove Park image: <https://unsplash.com/photos/a-group-of-people-sitting-on-top-of-a-lush-green-field-NC9neTICUtI>
- index.html Botanic Gardens image: <https://unsplash.com/photos/XRGmBLs8mBo>
- index.html Mitchell Library image: <https://www.pexels.com/photo/the-famous-mitchell-library-in-scotland-13657324/>
- index.html Hampden Park image: <https://stock.adobe.com/uk/images/glasgow-scotland-may-2019-hampden-park-football-stadium/423458915>
- gallery.html University Of Glasgow Outside image: <https://www.pexels.com/photo/brown-concrete-building-3061345/>
- gallery.html Mitchell Library image: <https://www.pexels.com/photo/brown-castle-387232/>
- gallery.html Arches in University of Glasgow image: <https://www.pexels.com/photo/arches-in-university-in-glasgow-17364073/>
- gallery.html Old Stock Exchange at Nelson Mandela Place image: <https://www.pexels.com/photo/old-glasgow-stock-exchange-in-nelson-mandela-place-at-buchanan-st-glasgow-scotland-18071848/>
- gallery.html Under Caledonian Railway Bridge image: <https://www.pexels.com/photo/under-caledonian-railway-bridge-in-glasgow-15128598/>
- gallery.html Doulton Fountain image: <https://www.pexels.com/photo/doulton-fountain-in-glasgow-16556338/>
- gallery.html Aerial View of Park Circus image: <https://www.pexels.com/photo/aerial-view-of-the-glasgow-cityscape-10569132/>
- gallery.html Glasgow Central Station Gates image: <https://www.pexels.com/photo/the-glasgow-central-station-gates-in-scotland-6309100/>
- signup.html People Make Glasgow image: <https://stock.adobe.com/uk/images/a-view-of-a-glasgow-street-in-front-of-a-tall-building/342751255>
- jokes.html Duke of Wellington Statue image: <https://stock.adobe.com/uk/images/glasgow-icon-gallery-of-modern-art-and-duke-of-wellington-with-cone/273317689>

## Sources

- 1 (most commonly used browsers reference): <https://www.oberlo.com/statistics/browser-market-share>
- The 'Previous Studies' link in the first information block on the Home page links to <https://preply.com/en/blog/british-cultural-attitudes-towards-languages/>
- The rottweiler joke on the Best Weegie jokes page belongs to Billy Connolly

Commit message:

add rationale to README.md and re-add Mitchell Library image to gallery

README.md, after:

# Visit Glasgow

Visit Glasgow is a website that aims to encourage prospective tourists to visit this city by showcasing it primarily through photos, informative facts and the best jokes Glasgow has to offer. This site provides information about Glasgow, its places of interest, its people and their humour in a fun and engaging way and its target audience is people with an interest in learning about this unique city. Visit Glasgow will be of most use to people who have never been, don't much much about it and want to learn just enough to entice them to visit.

![Am I Responsive mockup](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ebl138/visit-glasgow/main/media/visit-glasgow-am-i-responsive-1260x720.PNG)

## Features

- __Image based design__

  - As Visit Glasgow is a site to showcase a location, there are images across all four pages featuring its most iconic and recognisable parts, instead of an abundance of text.
  - These images in particular aid in helping prospective visitors learn about Glasgow visually and give ideas of locations to visit, accompanied with supporting text where necessary.
  - Along with other aspects of the site, images help create and maintain visual interest which engages users more.
  - Includes the hero sections of pages and the Where to Visit? section on the Home page

- __Navigation__

  - Appearing on each of the four pages, the semi-transparent navigation bar displays across the top of the screen from left to right and is consistent on every page.
  - The navigation feature displays the site name, Visit Glasgow, on its left side in a clear yet styled way and, when clicked, will take the user to the Home page.
  - There are four links to the four pages of the website; Home, Gallery, Join the community! and Best Weegie Jokes; these links highlight in a light blue colour when hovered over to add visual appeal.
  - On mobile devices less than 768 pixels wide, the navigation bar contracts into a menu represented by a hamburger icon which, when clicked, expands down to display the four links.

![Navigation bar](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ebl138/visit-glasgow/main/media/navigation-bar.PNG)

- __Information blocks__

  - The information blocks provide the user with informative facts about Glasgow and its distinctive accent and the locals so they can learn about aspects of the city.
  - These blocks give an introduction to the city in a fun way which engages the user.

![Glasgow information blocks](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ebl138/visit-glasgow/main/media/information-blocks.PNG)

- __Map section__

  - The map at the bottom of the Home page will allow the user to see exactly where the locations featured in the Where to visit? section are and shows surrounding areas to help with orientation.
  - The map can be interacted with, opened in a new tab to display a larger version and shared on social media to help the user plan their trip.

![Meetup Times](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ebl138/visit-glasgow/main/media/locations-map-2100x457.PNG)

- __Gallery__

  - The gallery offers the user ideas for sights to see, in addition to teaching the user what Glasgow is like visually.
  - The gallery features a slider function which allows the user to browse through 8 images in an interactive way.

![Gallery](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ebl138/visit-glasgow/main/media/gallery-620x502.PNG)

- __Join the community! page (Sign up or Log in)__

  - This page will allow the user to Become a Weegie (sign up for an account) or log in to their account if they are a returning user. Giving the user the ability to log in will increase the chance of visiting Glasgow as they can come back to the site and see saved locations and images (implemented as part of a future feature).
  - When signing up for an account, a user will be asked to submit a desired username to create interest.

![Sign Up](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ebl138/visit-glasgow/main/media/join-the-community-1200x444.PNG)

- __Best Weegie Jokes page__

  - This page will allow the user to learn about Glasgow locals' unique humour and they can learn some of the Glaswegian dialect.

![Sign Up](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ebl138/visit-glasgow/main/media/best-weegie-jokes.PNG)

- __The Footer__

  - The footer section includes links to the social media pages for the Visit Glasgow community. The links will open to a new tab to minimise disruption for the user.
  - The footer is valuable to the user as it allows them to stay connected with other users of the site via social media and keep them coming back.
  - Text also informs the user that the favicon was created using favicon.ico.

![Footer](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ebl138/visit-glasgow/main/media/footer.PNG)

### Features Left to Implement

- A 'Reviews' page which would reference the four best and four worst reviews received by Glasgow businesses/places. This would give even more information to the user about Glasgow and suggest locations to visit or activities to do.
- A video addition to the Best Weegie jokes page of Billy Connolly's best joke. This would be valuable to the user to allow them to learn more about Glaswegian humour and, by extension, Glasgow.

## Testing

- Tested on Chrome, Edge, Firefox, Opera (four of the five most commonly used web browsers(1)).
- Tested on each Windows, Mac and Ubuntu Linux on at least one of the above browsers.
- Project is responsive, visually attractive and functions well on all screen sizes from 'Mobile S' (320 pixels wide) to '4K' (2560 pixels wide) using Chrome Devtools.
- Navigation, information block, sign up form, favourite joke form and footer text all easy to read and understand on mobile to desktop screen sizes.
- All three forms work. In the Log In and Sign Up forms, entries are required in all fields except the 'Username' field, which is clearly marked 'Optional'; in the Favourite Joke form, an entry is required (and will only be accepted) in one field and the first field has been pre-checked. The submit buttons on all three forms all work.
- Tested performance using GTMetrix with following results:

![GTMetrix test result](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ebl138/visit-glasgow/main/media/gtmetrix-performance-test.PNG)

### Validator Testing

- HTML
  - No errors were returned when passing through the official [W3C validator](https://validator.w3.org/nu/?doc=https%3A%2F%2Fcode-institute-org.github.io%2Flove-running-2.0%2Findex.html)
- CSS
  - No errors were found when passing through the official [(Jigsaw) validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/validator?uri=https%3A%2F%2Fvalidator.w3.org%2Fnu%2F%3Fdoc%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fcode-institute-org.github.io%252Flove-running-2.0%252Findex.html&profile=css3svg&usermedium=all&warning=1&vextwarning=&lang=en#css)
- Accessibility
  - Running the site through Devtools' Lighthouse gives the following score and confirms that the colours and fonts chosen are easy to read and accessible
  
![Lighthouse result](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ebl138/visit-glasgow/main/media/lighthouse.PNG)

### Unfixed Bugs

There are no unfixed bugs

## Deployment

The site was deployed to GitHub pages. The steps to deploy are as follows:
 - In the GitHub repository, navigate to the Settings tab
 - Under Code and automation on the left side of the page, select Pages
 - Under Branch, select main then Save
 - Github then confirms desployment has been successful and provides the link to view the deployed site

The live link can be found here - <https://ebl138.github.io/visit-glasgow>

## Rationale

### Goals

 - Provide information (both visual and textual) about Glasgow to the user in an engaging and appealing way such that the user will want to explore more of the site and will be able to do so in an easy and straightforward way
 - Provide the ueer with opportunities to interact and contribute (in future) to the site/community of Visit Glasgow
 - Teach the user about aspects of Glasgow, in particular its accent and inhabitants

### Target audience

 - The target audience of this site is people who know little to nothing about Glasgow and would like to find out more, with a view to visiting
 - The typical target user will aim to find out more information about Glasgow in a compelling and engaging way

## Credits

### Content

- The icons in the footer were taken from [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/)
- the hidden-heading class was taken from the Love Running project
- The Love Running README.md template was used as the basis for this README.md

### Media

- index.html Hero image: <https://www.freeimages.com/photo/glasgow-1-1491832>
- index.html Glasgow Clyde image: <https://unsplash.com/photos/7vJX8cIgLao>
- index.html Kelvingrove Park image: <https://unsplash.com/photos/a-group-of-people-sitting-on-top-of-a-lush-green-field-NC9neTICUtI>
- index.html Botanic Gardens image: <https://unsplash.com/photos/XRGmBLs8mBo>
- index.html Mitchell Library image: <https://www.pexels.com/photo/the-famous-mitchell-library-in-scotland-13657324/>
- index.html Hampden Park image: <https://stock.adobe.com/uk/images/glasgow-scotland-may-2019-hampden-park-football-stadium/423458915>
- gallery.html University Of Glasgow Outside image: <https://www.pexels.com/photo/brown-concrete-building-3061345/>
- gallery.html Mitchell Library image: <https://www.pexels.com/photo/brown-castle-387232/>
- gallery.html Arches in University of Glasgow image: <https://www.pexels.com/photo/arches-in-university-in-glasgow-17364073/>
- gallery.html Old Stock Exchange at Nelson Mandela Place image: <https://www.pexels.com/photo/old-glasgow-stock-exchange-in-nelson-mandela-place-at-buchanan-st-glasgow-scotland-18071848/>
- gallery.html Under Caledonian Railway Bridge image: <https://www.pexels.com/photo/under-caledonian-railway-bridge-in-glasgow-15128598/>
- gallery.html Doulton Fountain image: <https://www.pexels.com/photo/doulton-fountain-in-glasgow-16556338/>
- gallery.html Aerial View of Park Circus image: <https://www.pexels.com/photo/aerial-view-of-the-glasgow-cityscape-10569132/>
- gallery.html Glasgow Central Station Gates image: <https://www.pexels.com/photo/the-glasgow-central-station-gates-in-scotland-6309100/>
- signup.html People Make Glasgow image: <https://stock.adobe.com/uk/images/a-view-of-a-glasgow-street-in-front-of-a-tall-building/342751255>
- jokes.html Duke of Wellington Statue image: <https://stock.adobe.com/uk/images/glasgow-icon-gallery-of-modern-art-and-duke-of-wellington-with-cone/273317689>

## Sources

- 1 (most commonly used browsers reference): <https://www.oberlo.com/statistics/browser-market-share>
- The 'Previous Studies' link in the first information block on the Home page links to <https://preply.com/en/blog/british-cultural-attitudes-towards-languages/>
- The rottweiler joke on the Best Weegie jokes page belongs to Billy Connolly
